Adds documentation for Job Scheduler plugin (#2242)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _job-scheduler-plugin/build-plugin.md

---
layout: default
title: Building a plugin for Job Scheduler
nav_order: 10
---

# Building a plugin for Job Scheduler

> OpenSearch plugin developers can extend the Job Scheduler plugin to schedule jobs like running aggregation query against raw data and saving the aggregated data into a new index every hour, or continue monitoring the shard allocation by calling the OpenSearch API and then post the output to a Webhook.

Reviewer: Change verb tense at the end - "[...] and then posting the output to a webhook."

Also lowercase webhook

> OpenSearch plugin developers can extend the Job Scheduler plugin to schedule jobs like running aggregation query against raw data and saving the aggregated data into a new index every hour, or continue monitoring the shard allocation by calling the OpenSearch API and then posting the output to a webhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch plugin developers can extend the Job Scheduler plugin to schedule jobs to perform on the cluster. Jobs you can schedule include running aggregation queries against raw data and saving the aggregated data into a new index every hour, or continuing to monitor the shard allocation by calling the OpenSearch API and then posting the output to a webhook.
```

> Reference the following [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/README.md) for examples of building a plugin that utilizes Job Scheduler.

Reviewer 2: For examples of building a plugin that utilizes the Job Scheduler plugin, see the Job Scheduler [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/README.md).

## Defining an endpoint

> You can configure your plugin's API endpoint by referencing the [example](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleExtensionRestHandler.java) `SampleExtensionRestHandler.java` file. Set the endpoint url that your plugin will expose with `WATCH_INDEX_URI`:

Reviewer: Capitalize URL

```java
public class SampleExtensionRestHandler extends BaseRestHandler {
    public static final String WATCH_INDEX_URI = "/_plugins/scheduler_sample/watch";
```

> You then need to define the job configuration by [extending](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobParameter.java) `ScheduledJobParameter`. You can also define the fields used by your plugin like `indexToWatch` as shown in the [example](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobParameter.java) `SampleJobParameter` file. This job configuration will be saved as a document in an index defined by you as shown this [example](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleExtensionPlugin.java#L54).

Reviewer: in the last sentence I think a word was missed - "as shown in this example."

    private Double jitter;
```

Next, build out your parameters from the declared variables:

```java
public SampleJobParameter(String id, String name, String indexToWatch, Schedule schedule, Long lockDurationSeconds, Double jitter) {
        this.jobName = name;
        this.indexToWatch = indexToWatch;
        this.schedule = schedule;

        Instant now = Instant.now();
        this.isEnabled = true;
        this.enabledTime = now;
        this.lastUpdateTime = now;
        this.lockDurationSeconds = lockDurationSeconds;
        this.jitter = jitter;
    }

    @Override
    public String getName() {
        return this.jobName;
    }

    @Override
    public Instant getLastUpdateTime() {
        return this.lastUpdateTime;
    }

    @Override
    public Instant getEnabledTime() {
        return this.enabledTime;
    }

    @Override
    public Schedule getSchedule() {
        return this.schedule;
    }

    @Override
    public boolean isEnabled() {
        return this.isEnabled;
    }

    @Override
    public Long getLockDurationSeconds() {
        return this.lockDurationSeconds;
    }

    @Override public Double getJitter() {
        return jitter;
    }
```

> The example code above defines request parameters set when building your plugin. Reference the following table for request parameters configured by the example code above. All request parameters listed are required.

Reviewer 2: You might want to move the first statement up above the examples. "The following sample shows the request parameters to set while building your plugin." The second sentence could say, "The following table describes the request parameters configured in the previous sample. All the request parameters shown are required."

:--- | :--- | :---
| getName | String | Returns the name of the job. |
| getLastUpdateTime | Time unit | Returns the last time the job ran. |
| getEnabledTime | Time unit | Returns the time that the job was enabled. |
| getSchedule | Unix cron | Returns the schedule that the job runs on formatted in Unix cron syntax. |
| isEnabled | Boolean | Whether or not the job is enabled. |
| getLockDurationSeconds | Integer | Returns the duration of time that the job is locked. |
| getJitter | Integer | Returns the defined jitter value. |

The logic run by your job should be defined by a class extending `ScheduledJobRunner` such as `SampleJobRunner`. While the job is running, there is a locking mechanism you can use to prevent other nodes from running the same job. [Acquire](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobRunner.java#L96) the lock. Then, make sure to release the lock before the [job finishes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobRunner.java#L116).

> For further information, reference the Job Scheduler [sample extention](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobParameter.java) directory in the [Job Scheduler Github repro](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler).

Reviewer 2: For more information, see he Job Scheduler [sample extension]

---
layout: default
title: Building a plugin for Job Scheduler
nav_order: 10
---

# Buidling a plugin for Job Scheduler

OpenSearch plugin developers can extend the Job Scheduler plugin to schedule jobs like running aggregation query against raw data and saving the aggregated data into a new index every hour, or continue monitoring the shard allocation by calling the OpenSearch API and then post the output to a Webhook.

Reference the following [README](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/README.md) for examples on building a plugin that utilizes Job Scheduler.

## Defining an endpoint

> You can configure your plugin's API endpoint by referencing the [example](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleExtensionRestHandler.java) `SampleExtensionRestHandler.java` file. Set the `WATCH_INDEX_URI` to the endpoint name that your plugin will use:

Reviewer 3: Change to: Set the endpoint url that your plugin will expose like `WATCH_INDEX_URI`

```java
public class SampleExtensionRestHandler extends BaseRestHandler {
    public static final String WATCH_INDEX_URI = "/_plugins/scheduler_sample/watch";
```

## Parameters configuration

> You can configure your plugin's parameters by referencing and modifying the [example](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobParameter.java) `SampleJobParameter.java` file to fit your needs:

Reviewer 3: You need to define the job configuration by extending `ScheduledJobParameter`. Other than the fields required in this interface, you can also define fields used by your plugin like `indexToWatch` in `SampleJobParameter`

This job configuration will be saved as a documents in an index defined by you, for example, https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleExtensionPlugin.java#L54

        return this.schedule;
    }

    @Override
    public boolean isEnabled() {
        return this.isEnabled;
    }

    @Override
    public Long getLockDurationSeconds() {
        return this.lockDurationSeconds;
    }

    @Override public Double getJitter() {
        return jitter;
    }

    public String getIndexToWatch() {
        return this.indexToWatch;
    }

    public void setJobName(String jobName) {
        this.jobName = jobName;
    }

    public void setLastUpdateTime(Instant lastUpdateTime) {
        this.lastUpdateTime = lastUpdateTime;
    }

    public void setEnabledTime(Instant enabledTime) {
        this.enabledTime = enabledTime;
    }

    public void setEnabled(boolean enabled) {
        isEnabled = enabled;
    }

    public void setSchedule(Schedule schedule) {
        this.schedule = schedule;
    }

    public void setIndexToWatch(String indexToWatch) {
        this.indexToWatch = indexToWatch;
    }

    public void setLockDurationSeconds(Long lockDurationSeconds) {
        this.lockDurationSeconds = lockDurationSeconds;
    }

    public void setJitter(Double jitter) {
        this.jitter = jitter;
    }
```

> The example code above defines the request parameters that can be set when building your plugin. Reference the following table configured by the example code above.

Reviewer 3: I think you only need to document the required field in this file https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/spi/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/spi/ScheduledJobParameter.java

:--- | :--- | :---
| getName | String | Returns the name of the job. |
| getLastUpdateTime | Time unit | Returns the last time the job ran. |
| getEnabledTime | Time unit | Returns the time that the job was enabled. |
| getSchedule | Unix cron | Returns the schedule that the job runs on formatted in Unix cron syntax. |
| isEnabled | Boolean | Whether or not the job is enabled. |
| getLockDurationSeconds | Integer | Returns the duration of time that the job is locked. |
| getJitter | Integer | Returns the defined jitter value. |
| getIndexToWatch | String | Returns the name of the index that the job monitors. |
| setJobName | String | Sets the name of the job. |
| setLastUpdateTime | Time unit | Sets the time that the job was last updated at. |
| setEnabledTime | Time unit | Sets the time for when the job is enabled. |
| setEnabled | Boolean | Enables or disables the job. |
| setSchedule | Unix cron | Sets the job's schedule using Unix cron syntax. |
| setIndexToWatch | String | Set the index that the job will monitor. |
| setLockDurationSeconds | Integer | Sets the duration that the job is locked for. |
| setJitter | Double | Sets the jitter value. |

> For further information, reference the Job Scheduler [sample extention](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobParameter.java) directory in the [Job Scheduler Github repro](https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler).

Reviewer 3: Add a paragraph for JobRunner

The logic run by your job should be defined by a class extending `ScheduledJobRunner` like `SampleJobRunner`
During the job running, there's a locking mechanism you can use to prevent other nodes executes the same job.
acquire: https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobRunner.java#L96
don't forget to release before job finishes: https://github.com/opensearch-project/job-scheduler/blob/main/sample-extension-plugin/src/main/java/org/opensearch/jobscheduler/sampleextension/SampleJobRunner.java#L116
